And I don't know what she charged, but she was
making some nickels and dimes for the two. And I
recall that Darnell, she wasn't no fancy dresser
or anything. They had some glad rags I guess you'd
call it. You know, studying all the time.
Everett Besh was so good, you know, he had a memory
that he graduated with honors. And I had heard that
when he graduated he went to some university as
head of some department because of his ability.
And Wallace Larson, he was from San Antonio, he
opened up his place.
He did pretty well with the ranchers. And Louis
Springer,
his mother had to come down and be close to her son.
We used to laugh because when Louis Springer's
wife and my wife got together,
they were going to go to Bryan, to Safeways or
Atlantic Pacific. And this little old lady, she
looked out the window, where are you going? Oh
we're going to get some whatever. All right, wait
just a minute, I'm going with you. And my wife was
looking and we couldn't tell her no, so here she
comes. So we remember that lady because of that.
Well, she had no friends, you know, and she didn't
want to be alone all the time. All right, so that
first year, your wife then stayed home and took
care of your five-year-old. Yes, because of the
unavailability of housing. And there wasn't
kindergarten. No, no, I'm talking about when you
all got here. in Vet Village. She didn't have a
full-time job. No, he did not have a full-time job.
And so she took care of him. Did you have a nickname
by that time? Yeah. They called me Quate. Quate?
Yeah. Q-U-A-T? Oh, you could say C-U-A-T-E.
Right. What does that mean? That means close
friend. Oh, Quate, Quate. Did almost all of the
veterans have nicknames? Well, no. Not that I
recall. Some of those veterans were,
what's the word I want to use?
They would see these young freshmen and they
wanted nothing to do with them. They didn't
believe in it. They said, we've been out there,
we've risked our lives all these years during the
war for you guys, and for me to take a lot of bluffs
from you guys? No. And they would not associate
with them. I didn't feel that way. I said, hey, I
need them. And so we got along fine. All right.
After you moved then into College View, did you and
your wife attend the college functions? Did you
all go to events on the campus then? Not, no. Didn't
go to Guy and Hall movies? Oh, yeah. We went to the
movies, yes. How did you get that job at Guy and
Hall? Well, I had a friend named Stotzenberg, and
his sister was married to a chemistry major. And
the girl, his sister, worked at Gine Hall at the box
office. She sold the tickets.
He had some, he had some tickets, and he says, I'm
going to guide. I got a new ticket, you want to come
along? Yeah, I'll come along. And I heard
something, you know, looking in my head. He said, I
want to talk to the manager of that place or
something. I want to get my foot in the door. So I
went. Fair enough. I met Mr. Tom Putty. Tom Putty
was a real slim fella. He had three daughters and a
wife. And his three daughters finally married
Aggies. Now Tom Putty was the manager of Garn Hall
and he did the sign writing for the movies that were
coming. He was good at it with the watercolor.
He had six cents, if you want to call that, of how
many fixed cameras. I mean, he could fix cameras,
and almost every day the mailman would deliver a
package of a camera that was defective from some
guy somewhere away, you know. And he'd say, fix it,
and I'd tell him to send me the bill. He took
pictures of the ring dance and worked all night in
the basement. One day I went into the basement and
it was dark and I fell down a hole. Yes. And I didn't
get hurt. My boy would just scare the fool out of me.
And then I noticed one time there was some elderly
men and they turned on the lights and they had a
table like this one. little locomotive trains,
you know. Toy train. Yeah. And it was elaborate. I
said, my God. Well, that's a hobby with them, you
know. So I got to meet Mr. Putty. And we talked. He
was real nice. He said, Mr. Putty, I need a job, a
part-time job. And what did I do? get a job here,
doing something, anything. He said, well look, I
got all the help I need. You come see me next
semester.
This was in April.
So I gave my name and everything. So one of the
cadets, a senior, had to go to summer camp. Not in
May, but in April. He was a projectionist. So, lo
and behold, when this cadet had to leave, Mr. Putty
sent word for me.
Was that every night? No, no. That you were to work
over there? Yeah, I was to work over there, I think
it was two afternoons a week. So he showed me how to
thread and join him. And so I got by in the month of
May. Then of course, you know, summer, they closed
it. So from then on, I had a regular part-time job.
Do you remember what the pay was for that part-time
job? Yes, 50 cents a week. I mean, 50 cents an hour,
I'm sorry. An hour, 50 cents an hour. And it was up on
the second stoop. Well, I say second stoop because
it was high. And it only had two windows about this
wide. And the fumes from the ark were getting to me.
So I said, hey, I've got to get out of here. And he put
me somewhere else. He said, oh, you take the
popcorn concession. candy, popcorn, this kind of
thing. And I said, hey, that's fine. And then, at
night, I would go to three places to put up my
billboards for the movies the next day. And so, all
in total, getting ready to graduate, I was not
earning 80 cents an hour. That was big money then,
too. And there was no tax withholding, nothing
like that then. Oh, brother, it was something. And
during the, when they were building the bonfire
and logs, you know, I would be challenged, you
know, when I'd go out at night to put up my
billboards. And I had to show the secretary who I
was, where I am. because they didn't want nothing
to happen to that fall fire. But they did. One
evening this plane came over. You remember that?
No, but I've heard about it. Describe it. The way it
got to be, see, this plane came over, it was a light
plane. And they had one of those score cans, five
gallon, with gasoline and a wick. And this plane
was supposed to come low, light the wick, and let
this can hit the following, set it on fire. What
these two guys in this plane didn't know, that it
takes about 30,000 gallons of naphtha to set this
pile of raw material. Well, anyway, it flew low. It
dropped its can with the wig, but it missed the
logs. I don't know how far it was. And that was the
talk of the day the next day, you know. And that was
something. Now, during those years in College
View, what was your normal daily routine? What
time did you get up? What chores did you do at the
apartment? And what did you do all day? Well, trash
started at noon o'clock. And I had to get up at about
6 o'clock in the morning, get everything ready,
and go back on campus. We were having classes in
what they called, well, there's different
places. And I had a tag on my car, so I had a certain
place where I could park. The KKs were just
everywhere. And if you got, I think it was three
tickets, and you couldn't explain why, then you
were barred. You couldn't drive your car in. You
walked, or somebody else gave you a ride. Okay, so
I'm going to go to classes. If the next class didn't
start for another hour, I was hit for the library or
someplace where I could read up and be prepared.
And so then the classes were over by noon, and so I
did go back to the house. And if I had an afternoon
class, well, I had to come back. Otherwise, I'd
stay. there where we were staying. And study all
afternoon? Study all afternoon, unless I had a
part-time job somewhere where it was study,
study, study. Now, did the GI Bill and what you were
able to earn while you were here, did it pay for
everything? Yes. Yeah, I had a ticket, and that was
to buy supplies, you know, notebooks, pencils.
I'd just get what I needed, and then the clerk at the
bookstore, they had a punch, you know, and they'd
say, well, you got a dollar and a half worth of
stuff. And then when the, when that card was all,
put a hold, you know, no more, that was it, no more.
Somebody figured out how much supplies you would
need, see. Now how did you become acquainted with
A&M traditions and ceremonies and all the routine
at A&M? There wasn't any orientation for you
veterans, was there? No. Not one orientation. Do
you remember going to your first silver taps? I
didn't go to silver taps. You didn't go to Silver
Taps while you were an undergraduate, ever? No.
Oh, yes. I went when we were at the annex. Yeah, but
once you came to the campus. Oh, yes. What was your
impression when you went to Silver Taps? Well, I
could understand that there was a feeling, and
that was fear of binding
with the present students. And the old students,
there was a spirit of cohesion, if you will, that
you just couldn't forget about it. And this is what
the class did last year here for us. Now it's up to us
to do it and keep up the tradition. And I had heard
through my in-laws that, hey, there's Aggies all
over the world. I says, you can go someplace. And
you meet up with an Aggie, and five minutes later,
hey, you're old friends. And you don't see that
with Baylor or Texas Tech or those others. And this
is a friendship that's everlasting. And so when
y'all were living in College View, you brought
your wife and your little boy, and you went to
Silver Taps. Did y'all go to midnight yell
practice? Maybe once or twice. Did you help work on
Bonfire ever? Work on Bonfire? No, no. That was
strictly for the Corps of Cadets. I'm sure that,
well that's all I saw. And I don't think that ever
would have turned me down, you know. But I said,
well they've got enough help. And I see all those
cranes and everything out there. So I never
volunteered, I just said. You older veterans, did
sometimes the younger undergraduates kind of
look at you with envy or give you a hard, did they
ever seem jealous that y'all were so much older and
so much more mature? There were times like that,
yes. They didn't come out and say so, but I could
sense it, you know. They couldn't get used to
having older
students there when they were used to seeing the
younger ones together. They were a little miles
apart. As you began to understand A&M, Describe
the way people were treated as students by other
students. Did it matter who your parents were,
where you came from, what your background was? No,
sir.
It seemed like all the barriers just dropped.
Everybody was an Aggie. There was never a bad
Aggie. All Aggies are good. And once a year, See,
Bolton at one time, when we were freshmen, Bolton
told us, all of us, the veterans, he says, if you
don't learn anything, you learn how to meet
people. And it's true to this day. And I watched
those
juniors and seniors when they go up there and they
shake hands, see? And I couldn't understand. I
said, why did they go like this? My name's Jerk. He
said, well, when they go up to a freshman, Harley
Fitz Jones, and he hits a brace. And you're trying
to grab him and get him off balance. Oh, that's it.
And to this day, I still do that. And sometimes when
I meet one for the first time, an Aggie, I knew you
were an Aggie. the way you shook hands. And
the fact that you were Hispanic never was any
disadvantage? No.
I think no, there was no disadvantage really. At
the time I was there, there were very few
Hispanics. Aside from those that came from Mexico
or Uruguay, that was a different breed. And the
ones that were from the state of Texas or someplace
else, they were, seemed to be down here for
business, to get that education, and there was no
animosities or any, you know. Now, what did you and
your wife and your youngster do for relaxation?
What did you all do for enjoyment?
Well, I didn't, my wife made friends with the other
wives, and my little boy had to play with the other
kids.
I tell you, it was heartbreaking for me. When we
came over to that village, he had an old bicycle,
and one of the wheels had lost a rubber tire. And the
other kids, they had some nice tricycles. So we
went down to Bryan, Westonado, and they had toys.
a little bicycle with a chain on it that I wanted to
get for Robert so he wouldn't feel isolated from
the others because he had a junk tricycle. So the
manager was named Mr. Daniels. And I didn't take
offense to what he said. He
let me open an account and I would pay him I think it
was $5 a month. And a bicycle cost, I think it was $25
or $27.50.
And he says, you will pay me, won't you? I said, yes,
sir. He said, I'll pay my bills. It's OK. So I
figured, he thought I was going to skip town. So I
did. I paid it. Paid it in full. That was the only
time, see. I said, no, he wasn't being antisocial.
He must have been suffering some losses from
people that are coming to A&M, and they flunk, and
they leave, and then he's holding sacks. Other
than that, no. And my wife could make friends
anywhere she could go. And so it was okay then. All
right. At the end of that first year at College
View, Did you all go back to San Antonio that next
summer? I think we did.
Well, one summer I stayed and worked at the Grove.
At the Grove? At the Grove, yeah. And Mr. Putty was
the one that showed the movies, and I had the
concession for the popcorn and peanuts. Ten cents
a bag, and I'll never forget that, because when I
turned in the money, it was all dimes.
Everybody had a dime. Oh, I tell you, it was
something.
Let's see, I'm trying to think of... This says that
in the summer of 51, you went back to San Antonio,
and then came back that fall in the new part of
College View. Yes, sir. What kind of automobile
did you have by then? It was a 1940
Chevrolet.
It was a two-door. Once
or twice, my son was going to A&M Consolidated
Elementary School. And the school had a bus. They
would come by and pick up the kids, see? Well, my son
wanted to get on the bus, so we'd give him his nickel
to get on the bus. And this morning, he missed it.
Oh, he felt bad. Daddy, I don't want to get on the
bus. So I said, all right, get in the car. So we
followed the bus, and we passed the bus by two
blocks, and I let him off. Then the bus had to stop
and pick him off over there. I guess the driver was
the one that said, well, this kid's over here. He
belongs in College Field. He paid his nickel. But,
see, he had his little friends on that bus, too,
see. And as far as you know, his experiences at A&M
Consolidated were all positive? Oh, yes. And I
said, oh. I remember when we were at College View,
when the band left their area to go practice on Kyle
Field, they'd play. And man, all those kids would
come out of the house and look at the band and follow
the band. There was something about the band that
just, you know, makes... Did you and your wife and
your son go to Bonfire? Yes. And what was your
impression of Bonfire then? Well, at first, I got a
thrill out of it.
Like a fool, we wanted to get up there close. And
when that thing lit, boy, we had a retreat. After
that, you know, it was, you know, second nature,
was it? But the young people, they loved it.
Because they had the girlfriends, you know, and
all this. And to them, well, it was a chance to be
with a girl and all this. And they just loved that.
That was an excuse to get out and have some fun. Old
guys like me, Barrett says, well, the first one,
that's okay. That's just like eating apples.
After you eat the third one, it doesn't taste as
good as the first one. Now, Bonfire was held on the
drill field then? In front of where the MSC is now?
No. Not on the drill field. It wasn't held on the
drill field? No. Oh, here. Behind where Duncan is?
Yeah. Okay. Yes, sir. Okay. Because for a few years
it was on the drill field, and I didn't know when it
moved. Let's see. Did you all go to yell practice,
midnight yell practice? I don't recall. Did you go
to football games? Oh, yes. What was it like for an
older veteran and his wife to go to a football game?
Well, give me that again. No, I was saying what was
it like for you as an older student? You know, you
weren't an 18- or 19-year-old. You were mature.
Well,
to be truthful, I had never seen a college football
game. And this was the thrill, see. And over there,
the last row, there was like a wall. And I'd take my
son, and I'd sit him up there. I thought I had to hold
him. And I remember one fellow, he was selling
Coca-Cola. In those days, it was in a bottle. And
they were just semi-cold. You had to have
something to drink. And he had these cases, wooden
cases of Coca-Cola. And he was selling this by the
bottle. I forget what the cost. And someone said,
you see that fellow over there? He's selling
coats, you know? And he's working his way to a
college. I said, you mean? Whatever he makes,
that's what he has to pay. Boy, he must sell a lot of
coats. Yes. And let's see, your practice, what
about the Aggie band? How did that impress you? Oh,
I tell you, it gets that big goose pimples in my arm.
Did you all go to any out-of-town football games?
You and your wife? I don't recall. No, sir. Let's
see. Did you join a church here? Yes. Where? We went
to the First Baptist Church in College Station. In
College Station, not in Bryan? No, we visited over
there in Bryan. But here? But here, with Brother
Longshore. Remember Longshore? Okay. And what
led you to that particular church? I think Rachel
had some friend that suggested it, and then it was
closer to go here than to go on the way to Bryan. And
the people, we didn't know nobody in Bryan, but we
knew some people over here. In fact, we knew some of
the ushers. One of them had a cleaning place over
here on South Gate. I can't remember his name. And
so it was more of a friendly atmosphere, whether
you like it or not. So we stayed, we stayed for
preaching, and it was, we enjoyed it. And Mrs.
Marion Pugh, she taught the little ones, and my son
was there. He would use some of the terms. And in the
morning time, we still kid him about that. And
Varian Pugh was in my class. Do you remember Flake
Fisher? Okay, Flake Fisher was in my Sunday School
class also.
Let's see, the MSC was being built during this
time? Yeah, it was just being built. As a memorial
to the World War II veterans, yes, sir. But Guyon
Hall was still the big place for the important
events. Oh, yeah. Do you remember any important
celebrity visitors that came while you were a
student? Well, yeah, there was a... Did
Eisenhower come during that? Oh, yeah,
Eisenhower was here. He visited here. And...
there was a dance or something, and a named band,
they would give a concert at Guyon, see, for those
people that didn't want to, they were not going to
attend the other function. And this band, there
was Glenn Gray, his Casa Loma Orchestra, he was
here. And Glenn Gray met I said, Rachel's sister.
And he liked her. And he says, say, do you sing? I
need a singer. And God I just, who asked you that?
Glenn Gray. And then there was Billy something, he
had a band. I don't recall their last name. And they
had left the instruments there on the stage in the
afternoon. And some kid took a trumpet and he was
going to blow it and he took it home somewhere and
the K.K.' 's were looking for that kid and they knew
who it was, see? Billy, Billy something. Okay. And
then who else? There was another band that came
down. Did the Dorseys? No. I don't remember that
one.